And so since we did that, let's do
of course the greatest thing ever.
Let's go over to our coding machine,
go back to day 1, and
look for, what is it, binary search.
Yeah, look at that.
So, now we can implement binary
search right here right now.
So, notice that we're given a haystack and
a needle, again.
So, as always, let's start off of course,
with the lowest loop, a do while loop.
You don't have to use this.
And let's create a let lo=0,
put this, and a hi,
I'll just keep them the same naming
convention as my pseudocode.
A hi=haystack.length, awesome.
So now again,
we need to grab the midpoint.
So, let's go const m for
midpoint, math.floor.
And we'll do lo+ hi- l divide by 2.
I put that little note, don't forget
to divide by 2 because when I program
this took me like three minutes to realize
I had a bug cuz I forgot to divide by 2.
Don't forget to divide by 2,
it's very, very important.
const value,
of course gonna be haystack m.
You're gonna see this a lot in algorithms
that they use single letter variables to
denote everything.
I'm just kind of following
the pseudocode style so
that way it's a fairly easy direct
translation from this into here.
Normally, program with good names but
in this case we're just gonna
keep it like that, all right?
So if value is equivalent to the needle,
we have found it ,right?
I'll take that down here and
do a little false, there we go.
And we need to come up with a nice
condition right here as of course is
while lo is less than hi.
All right, so our three conditions
of course are gonna be when value is
equivalent to needle, we found it,
awesome, let's return true.
But if value is greater than needle,
that means anything to the right hand
side, is gonna be greater than me.
I'm already greater than at this current
point, so the rest of the right hand side,
is gonna be greater than,
so I want to reduce the high side,
to this point and exclude the midpoint.
So, hi equals midpoint, cuz remember,
hi as exclusive, lo is inclusive, awesome.
Let's just cut and paste that.
So, we can reverse the condition or
we can just do an else statement.
We'll just do an else
statement to make it simple.
Now remember, what this means now is
that our value is less than our needle.
Which means that we need search
on the higher side, right?
Our needle is greater than our value, that
means if we're gonna exist in this array,
we're somewhere in
the greater side region.
So, lo=m+1, cuz again, drop the midpoint.
You don't want to look
at the midpoint again,
it would be silly if you
looked at the midpoint again.
Just having these conditions on your
brain long as I've done this all correct,
we should be able to see this thing.
Go first try it.
Let me just make sure that I've actually
done this correct ,mpx just binary.
That is not how you spell binary, is it?
Come on, okay,
well we have two operations in there.
Don't look at the second
one compare binary tree,
you're not actually supposed
to see that quite yet.
So, let's pretend the man behind
the curtain doesn't exist but yeah,
binary search actually worked, first try.
All right, there we go.
So I don't think I put this
in my presentation, but
one of my first interviews at Google, they
made me code binary search in Google Docs.
It was terrible, and I had plus 1
minus 1 issues all over the place.
I didn't come into it with a really clean
idea of exactly what needed to happen.
This algorithm is actually pretty simple,
right?
Like, that's not a hard
amount of code to do it.
It's really only what,
seven lines of actual code,
the rest is all spacing or
it's like nothing, right?
Initialization spacing, so it's
actually a pretty simple piece of code,
it's just being able to focus on this and
do this correctly.
Do we have any questions?
>> Just a quick thing in the repo,
I couldn't see the day 1 folder.
Do we have it there?
I just see the test folder in the repo.
>> So it is.
So, what editor are you?
So the question was I can't
see the day 1 folder.
What's happening?
What editor are using?
>> I'm using Visual Studio code.
>> Okay, so code, is it hiding,
get ignored folders?
>> I'm not sure if what it
is that they're integrating.
>> It's a get ignore it so that way
you can generate a lot of them and
you don't have a huge amount
of uncommitted changes.
So, if you're using visual code,
I don't use code.
I didn't know that but
if it hides, ignored folders,
you're not gonna be able to see day 1.